*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "SWAT THE FLY!": A ONE-ACT FANTASY ***

  “SWAT THE FLY!”

  A ONE-ACT FANTASY

  _By_

  ELEANOR GATES

  AUTHOR OF “THE POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL,” “WE ARE
  SEVEN,” “THE BIOGRAPHY OF A PRAIRIE
  GIRL,” “THE PLOW-WOMAN,” ETC.

  COLORED JACKET BY EVERETT SHINN

  [Illustration]

  THE ARROW PUBLISHING COMPANY
  116 WEST FIFTY-NINTH STREET
  NEW YORK




  _Copyrighted April 17, 1914, as a dramatic composition by
  ELEANOR GATES._

  _Copyrighted April, 1915, by
  THE ARROW PUBLISHING COMPANY._

  _All rights reserved, including that of translation into foreign
  languages, including the Scandinavian._

  _This play may be publicly read without further permission,
  but the acting rights are reserved by the author._




  TO
  THE TROOPER




THE PERSONS OF THE PLAY


  THE DOCTOR
  THE WOMAN INSPECTOR
  THE BOY
  THE DOG
  THE CAT
  THE HORSE
  THE MONKEY
  THE RABBIT
  THE FLY




“SWAT THE FLY!”


_A garden in the rear of a laboratory for animal experimentation. A
high red-brick wall encloses the garden, into which, at the upper
right-hand corner, juts the granite laboratory building. The interior
of the laboratory is brilliantly white. From it a door opens upon the
garden. Beside the door, hanging from a wrought-iron bracket, is a
globe in which are electric bulbs. The lights are turned on by pressing
a button in the framework of the door._

_In the garden wall, at left, is a wide door leading to a city street.
In the rear wall is a square, window-like opening through which can be
seen the Horse’s standing-stall. The Monkey’s house is in the lower
right-hand corner of the garden. Directly across from it is the kennel
of the Dog. The Rabbit’s hutch is placed against the rear wall, close
to the square opening. The front of the hutch is screened with wire
netting._

_The garden is covered by a lawn. Flowers grow against its walls, as
well as in the corners made by the meeting of wall and building. Vines
climb the bricks on either side of the street door. Above the walls, on
every side, bend the branches of trees. At the center of the garden is
a low stone bench._

_It is late evening. The garden is only star-lit. Out of the gloom come
the sleepy bark of the Dog, the crunching and stamping of the Horse, as
he feeds, and the cross chatter of the Monkey. The tiny bell, which the
Cat wears on her collar, tinkles faintly._

_Suddenly the street door opens, and the flash of a pocket search-light
is turned upon the garden. The Woman Inspector appears in the doorway.
She wears a coat-suit, a neckpiece formed of the skin of a fox, and
a hat trimmed with pheasant feathers. She throws her light upon the
Monkey’s house: upon the door of the laboratory: upon the opening in
the rear wall. The back of the Horse appears above the sill of the
opening. The light travels to the Rabbit’s hutch, disclosing a mound of
snow-white fur._

_The Inspector enters quickly and goes to the Dog, who is lying down,
his back curved against the entrance to the kennel. The Inspector turns
her light upon him. He moves._

INSPECTOR

  (_Leans to peer into the kennel._)

Here! Let me look at you. A bandage! Oh, poor fellow! That Doctor’s
been torturing you! (_The Dog growls._) There! There! (_Pats the Dog,
and goes to the hutch._) A rabbit! (_Makes a brief examination; goes
to the opening in the wall and looks through at the Horse, flashing
her light over him. Comes down quickly to the Monkey. He is lying just
within the door of his house. She drops on one knee._) Well, monkey!
What’s that Doctor been doing to YOU? (_Reaches in._) Been putting a
steel gag on you? Oh, the poor foot! (_Soothingly, as the Monkey moves
and chatters._) There, now! Lie still!

DOCTOR

  (_Calls from the laboratory._)

Here, Kitty! Kitty! Kitty!

  (_The Inspector puts out her pocket-flash, springs up, and hides
  behind the Monkey’s house. The Doctor enters, and presses the
  electric button beside the laboratory door. The globe floods the
  garden with light. The Doctor wears a sack suit, but no hat._)

DOCTOR

Here, Kitty! Kitty! Kitty! (_Looks about the garden._) Well, how’s
everybody? (_Goes to the opening in the wall, and reaches to pat the
Horse._) Hello! How’s the nice old boy? (_Turns toward the hutch._) And
how’s little Bunny! Eh?

  (_The Boy enters from the street. He is wearing pajamas. In his right
  hand, wrapped in paper, he carries a bone. In the circle of his left
  arm he has a banana, which he holds against him; in his left hand
  are an apple and a carrot. He sees the Doctor and halts timidly. The
  Doctor turns from the hutch and sees the boy._)

DOCTOR

Good evening, young man! Where did YOU come from?

BOY

I came from my bed. (_Backs a step and puts the bone behind him._)

DOCTOR

And what are you doing out of your bed?

BOY

I’m feeding your animals. (_Holds out his right hand to show the bone._)

DOCTOR

Feeding my animals! Why-- --!

BOY

My mother says you starve ’em. So,--here’s a bone for the dog, an’ a
carrot for the rabbit, an’ a’ apple for the horse, an’ a banana for the
monkey.

DOCTOR

  (_Laughs and accepts the bone._)

All right. (_Goes to the kennel, the Boy following, and looks in._)
Hey, dog! Just gnaw on this fine big bone. (_To the boy._) And how did
you find your way here, at this time of night?

BOY

I followed my mother.

DOCTOR

Why, your mother isn’t here!

BOY

Oh, yes, she is. Somewhere. (_Looks behind the kennel._) I saw her come
in. Oh, Mother! (_Looks behind the Monkey’s house._) Hello, mother!
(_To the Doctor._) Here she is!

  (_The Inspector stands up._)

DOCTOR

Madam, what are you doing in this garden?

INSPECTOR

Examining these animals.

DOCTOR

Why should you sneak and hide?

  (_The Boy goes to his mother._)

INSPECTOR

Let me introduce myself. (_Opens her coat, displaying a metal badge
pinned on her breast._)

DOCTOR

So you’re a spy!

INSPECTOR

I’m an inspector!

DOCTOR

I’ve seen you before.

INSPECTOR

I’ve been keeping an eye on you.

DOCTOR

Well, go ahead! What is it you want to know?

INSPECTOR

I want to know what you do to these poor, dumb creatures.

DOCTOR

I use them to fight the diseases carried by flies.

INSPECTOR

  (_Sneeringly._)

Oh, you vivisectionists have a FINE excuse for your cruelty! Flies!

DOCTOR

Yes, flies! When all the flies are dead, we doctors will be out of a
job. For now we know that--

INSPECTOR

Please come back to the animals.

DOCTOR

  (_Shrugs, crosses to the Monkey._)

Well, this monkey here is--(_The Monkey chatters angrily. The Doctor
falls back, motioning the Inspector and the Boy to retreat._) Look out!
He’s bad-tempered!

INSPECTOR

Ah! You needn’t tell me how you treat HIM! (_The Doctor turns away._)
And what about that helpless rabbit?

DOCTOR

  (_Goes to the hutch._)

The rabbit furnishes me with typhoid serum. And the neck of my horse is
full of the serum that cures diphtheria. See! (_Takes a small case from
a pocket._) I’ll take some serum--just to show you. (_Leans through the
opening._) Here, back! Back up! Whoa, now!

INSPECTOR

Oh, don’t! I can’t bear it! Don’t! (_The Horse stamps. She covers her
eyes._) Don’t, I say! Oh, I’ll have you arrested for this!

DOCTOR

There! (_Turns._) You see what THAT amounts to.

INSPECTOR

  (_Faces him._)

Oh, don’t try to fool me! You hurt him!

DOCTOR

Not more than the flick of a whip. (_Puts the case away._)

INSPECTOR

  (_Triumphantly._)

There you are! The flick of a whip! What do you doctors care about the
agony of your poor victims!

DOCTOR

I don’t cause pain unless it’s necessary.

INSPECTOR

Necessary! You shouldn’t be allowed to cause an animal ANY pain!

DOCTOR

Oh! Then, of course, you’re a vegetarian.

INSPECTOR

I am not!

DOCTOR

Well, I AM! You talk about pain! Do you know how lambs are killed? And
cattle? Do you know anything about slaughtering hogs? THERE’S pain for
you!

INSPECTOR

We must have meat!

BOY

  (_Proudly._)

And my father’s going to bring us some venison.

DOCTOR

Your father?

BOY

He’s gone to the mountains--to hunt and fish. (_Leans against his
mother._)

INSPECTOR

  (_To the Boy._)

Hush!

DOCTOR

  (_Triumphantly._)

Ha! Hunt and fish!

INSPECTOR

Yes, hunt and fish. Why not?

DOCTOR

  (_Sarcastically._)

My dear lady, I see that you really ARE interested in animals.

INSPECTOR

  (_Angrily._)

Oh, I know what you mean! But let me tell you something: When my
husband hunts, he gives an animal a chance for its life. And if he
kills, he kills quick. But you--you mutilate in the name of science.
You tie down your victims--and torture!

DOCTOR

I use ether and chloroform. But your husband--when he pulls a trout
from the stream, it dies of suffocation.

INSPECTOR

  (_To the Boy, irritably._)

Don’t lean against me like that!

DOCTOR

And when your husband goes shooting, he doesn’t find every bird that he
wounds.

INSPECTOR

He finds as many as he can.

DOCTOR

Ha! As many as he can! But the ones he DOESN’T find! Are they
chloroformed? And what about the animals that die in traps? And the
birds that are snared? (_He points at the Inspector._) How about that
fox? That pheasant?

INSPECTOR

You’re insulting!

DOCTOR

Madam, you’re a fine Inspector! Here you stand, admitting that your
husband kills for pleasure! And you’re tricked out in the skin and the
feathers of dumb creatures. Look at that poor head! Those little paws!
And yet you spy on a man who causes suffering only to save human life!

  (_The Boy coughs, and leans heavily against his mother._)

INSPECTOR

Save human life! With your nasty serums, you mean? Oh, what nonsense!

DOCTOR

Madam, go home. And take care of your boy!

INSPECTOR

You needn’t worry about my boy. (_She draws the Boy to her._)

DOCTOR

But, see! His cheeks! He’s got fever.

INSPECTOR

  (_To the Boy._)

Do you feel sick, dear?

DOCTOR

Let ME have a look at him. (_Starts forward._)

INSPECTOR

  (_Puts out hand to check the doctor._)

No! Your hands are stained with the blood of the innocent! Don’t you
dare to touch him! (_She takes the Boy up in her arms._) I wouldn’t let
you treat a dog of mine! (_Crosses to the street door and halts to look
back._) You fiend! (_Goes out._)

DOCTOR

Oh, all right! (_Follows the Inspector to the door, slams it, turns
toward the laboratory._) But the poor little chap ought to be home in
bed. (_Strikes at the Fly._) Oh, you pest! (_Looks up at the top of the
wall, to where the Fly has gone, turns, touches the electric button,
putting the garden again in darkness, and closes the laboratory door
after him._)

DOG

  (_Howls mournfully._)

Woo--oo--oo--oo! (_Pause._) Woo--oo--oo!

  (_The Cat meows as if frightened. The Monkey chatters angrily. The
  Horse snorts. The globe again lights the garden, and the Monkey
  is standing with one fore-paw on the electric button. The other
  paw is bandaged. The Dog is outside his kennel. He, too, wears a
  bandage--about his head. It gives him a rakish expression. The Rabbit
  is sitting in front of her hutch. She moves her ears nervously._)

DOG

  (_Howls._)

Woo--oo--oo--oo!

  (_The Cat appears from behind the Monkey’s house. She wears a gay
  collar to which is attached a small bell._)

CAT

  (_Anxiously._)

Dog! Are you sick?

  (_The Monkey comes down to observe the Dog._)

DOG

No. Cat, no! (_Howls._) Woo--oo--oo!

MONKEY

  (_Crossly._)

Well, if you’re not sick, what’re you howling about?

DOG

Oh, somebody’s going to die. Woo--oo--oo--oo!

  (_The animals are greatly excited. The Rabbit and the Cat join the
  Monkey, while the Horse snorts and stamps._)

RABBIT

Oh, Dog, is it I?

HORSE

  (_Puts his head in at the square opening._)

Or I?

CAT

Oh, I’m scared! (_Puts her paws to her eyes._)

DOG

Don’t worry, Cat. It’s not one of us!

MONKEY

Not? Then cut out that howling! Y’ know, I’VE got NERVES.

HORSE

Is it the Doctor?

  (_The Dog shakes his head._)

MONKEY

No such luck!

HORSE

Is it the Inspector?

RABBIT

And she defended us! Oh! Oh!

MONKEY

  (_To the Rabbit._)

Blame that Doctor! It’s HIS fault!

DOG

Rabbit, it’s not the Inspector.

CAT

Then it’s the Boy!

ALL

Is it? Tell us! Oh, Dog!

DOG

I’m afraid it’s the Boy. Woo--oo--oo--oo!

CAT

The Boy? Meow! Meow!

MONKEY

  (_To the Cat._)

Oh, shut up! Here I am, that Boy’s own cousin, as you might say, and
I’M not crying!

RABBIT

What’s the matter with the Boy?

CAT and HORSE

  (_Together._)

Yes! Yes! What?

MONKEY

Wasn’t the Boy just here? I tell you, it’s that DOCTOR!

DOG

Oh, poor little Boy! Oh, his throat. Woo--oo--oo!

HORSE

Throat! Oh! Dear! Dear!

MONKEY

Ah-ha! (_To the Horse._) Didn’t that Doctor give YOU something, in YOUR
throat?

ALL

That’s so! Yes! He did!

MONKEY

That’s your proof! (_Sits on the stone bench._)

CAT

Then it’s true?

MONKEY

As true as there’s milk in cocoanuts.

RABBIT

Oh! Oh!

HORSE

Well, I’m only a horse!

DOG

But the Boy is almost a man.

MONKEY

Ya-a-ah! Look at how that Doctor treats ME! And I’M almost a man.

ALL

Yes. A man. Almost. You are.

MONKEY

  (_Rises proudly._)

Indeed, I am! I even THINK like a man. (_The animals agree by nods._)
And I ought to live in the house with the family. But does that Doctor
want me? Oh, I hate him! (_Chatters angrily._)

RABBIT

And _I_ hate him! (_Moves her ears._)

MONKEY

My friends, this Doctor is the cause of ALL our troubles. I wish HE
were going to die. (_Animals are shocked._) Yes! And for half a banana
I’d kill him!

ALL

Kill him! Oh!

MONKEY

Yes, kill him, and set you all free. (_Takes proud attitude._)

ALL

Free? Free? Could you? (_The Horse whinnies, the Cat plays, the Dog
barks, the Rabbit moves her ears._)

MONKEY

Could I? Rather! (_Struts to and fro._)

RABBIT

But HOW could you kill him?

MONKEY

How? Easy enough! (_To the others._) Now, HOW shall--er--WE kill him?

HORSE

I suppose I could kick him.

DOG

And I could bite him. Like that!

CAT

I could scratch his eyes out. Pst! Pst!

MONKEY

  (_Proudly._)

I could fight him man to man! Come, friends! (_He motions the Rabbit,
the Cat and the Dog to him._) We’ll bite him, we’ll kick him, we’ll
scratch him, we’ll kill him together.

ALL

Yes! Yes! We’ll kill him!

FLY

  (_Appears on the wall above the Horse._)

Buzz-z-z-z-z-z!

  (_Animals look up. The eyes of the Fly glow red._)

Buzz-z-z-z-z-z!

ALL

The Fly! The Fly! The Fly! (_They go toward him._)

FLY

Hey, all of you! Wait a minute! If you’re going to kill that Doctor,
_I_ want to help!

ALL

Come down! Yes! Help!

  (_The Fly descends the wall; buzzing loudly. The others conduct him
  forward._)

FLY

Ladies and gentlemen, I was fast asleep up there, out of the way of
the spiders, when all of a sudden I was awakened by the music of your
voices. And I heard your delicious scheme. Oh, I yearn to be a part of
it! For I hate that Doctor, too!

ALL

  (_Surprised._)

You? Why? Why?

FLY

Why? Saucers of poisoned sugar-water, THAT’S why! Reams of sticky
tangle-foot, that’s why! And did you hear what he said to your friend,
the Inspector? And did you see him SWAT at me as he went out?

ALL

  (_Sympathetically._)

Yes! Yes! Meow! Bow-wow! Ee-ee-ee!

FLY

Yes! This same Doctor who tortures you! Look at poor Horse--full of
diphtheria!

HORSE

Well, of course, it doesn’t hurt!

FLY

If it hurt, he’d do it just the same. (_To the Monkey._) And think how
he treats you--you ought to be a member of his household.

MONKEY

People are NEVER kind to their poor relations.

FLY

  (_To the Dog._)

And, oh, what he hasn’t done to YOU! (_The Dog growls. To the Rabbit._)
And you’re full of typhoid. (_The Rabbit gives a little scream. To the
Cat._) And you’ll be the NEXT!

CAT

Meow!!

FLY

And so he must die! (_To the Horse._) But if you kick him, his friends
will shoot you. (_To the Dog._) If you bite him, they’ll think you’re
mad! (_To the Cat._) If you scratch him, they’ll wring your neck. So
you’d better let ME kill him!

ALL

YOU?

FLY

And nobody will ever know! Buzz-z-z! Buzz-z-z-z-z! (_His eyes glow
red._)

MONKEY

  (_Contemptuously._)

How can a mere fly kill a man?

ALL

Oh, he can’t! Impossible! No.

MONKEY

A common fly, too. A common house fly.

FLY

So you doubt it, do you? (_Proudly._) My friends, it is _I_ who am
killing that Boy!

ALL

You? Oh! The Boy!

FLY

Yes, I!

DOG

  (_Howls._)

Woo--oo--oo--oo!

FLY

The other day, when he was having his breakfast, I lit on the edge of
his glass of milk. (_Darkly._) And I wiped my foot! (_Making a wiping
motion with his right front foot._)

ALL

Your FOOT?

FLY

But what’s one boy! Huh! With the help of my thousand children, I could
wipe out this whole town! (_Animals turn away incredulously. The Horse
brays like a donkey in derision. The Cat puts a paw over her mouth to
hide a smile._) I could, I tell you. (_To the Cat._) Haven’t I the
entrée to the best homes?

CAT

  (_Nods._)

Oh, meow!

HORSE

And to the best stables! (_Stamps._)

MONKEY

  (_Crossly._)

While I have to stay out in a garden!

FLY

Well, then! At this moment I have six million, six hundred thousand
germs on my feet. (_Raises his right front foot._) Here’s my diphtheria!

HORSE

Oh, horrible! (_Stamps._)

  (_The Dog starts, and stares at the Fly._)

FLY

  (_Holds up first left foot._)

And here’s typhoid!

RABBIT

Er--ah!

DOG

Typhoid, too!

FLY

I’m the best little carrier of typhoid the world has ever seen.

DOG

  (_Grimly._)

Go on! Go on!

FLY

  (_Holds up second right foot._)

Here I keep scarlet fever. (_Holds up second left foot._) And here’s
small-pox! (_Holds up third right foot._) And here’s the white plague.

MONKEY

  (_Falls back, frightened._)

Ee--ee--ee!

FLY

Now, ladies and gentlemen, here I am, germed to the feet! How shall
that Doctor die?

DOG

  (_Significantly._)

So, Mr. Fly, you carry ALL the diseases?

FLY

  (_Proudly._)

I carry them all! All! Even infantile paralysis! (_Laughs._) And let me
tell you a little joke! They’ll never get rid of disease as long as I’M
alive. Buzz-z-z-z-z-z-z! Buzz-z-z-z-z-z! Buzz-z-z!

DOG

Friends, we’ve been blaming the wrong person!

ALL

What? You mean--? Tell us!

DOG

It’s not the Doctor. This Fly is our REAL enemy!

ALL

Enemy! The Fly! (_They fall away from the Fly._)

FLY

  (_To the Dog._)

How can you turn on me like that? I’ve tickled your nose. I’ve kept you
awake. But--

DOG

Silence! (_To the others._) If this Fly didn’t carry disease, there
wouldn’t be sickness. If there wasn’t sickness, the Doctor wouldn’t
have to experiment on us.

  (_The Horse snorts, the Monkey chatters, the Cat spits, the Rabbit
  moves her ears._)

FLY

Oh, you ungrateful beasts!

DOG

You bug! You ungrateful bug! If there’s a warm corner in the house, you
have it; if there’s a sweet cake in the cupboard, you eat it. And for
all the hospitality that’s shown you, what do you do? You carry filth!
You carry death! You even murder little babies!

FLY

And what do YOU do? You sit in the laps of women!

DOG

I may sit in the laps of women, but I don’t put my feet in their food!

CAT

Good for you, Dog! (_The other animals show approval._)

FLY

  (_To the Cat._)

You little sneak. What have I ever done to you?

CAT

Your relatives fall into my milk!

MONKEY

  (_To the Fly._)

So YOU carry the white plague? Ee-ee-ee! (_Points a long finger at the
Fly._)

HORSE

And every time you give somebody diphtheria, the Doctor runs a needle
into me. (_Stamps his feet._)

DOG

Friends, I have a plan.

ALL

What is it? Go ahead! Yes! Hear! Hear!

DOG

It’s this: (_Darkly._) Swat the Fly!

FLY

Oh, Dog! No! No!

DOG

Swat him! He’s worse than a rattlesnake!

FLY

Oh, but you wouldn’t! I’m little! So little!

DOG

It’s only BECAUSE you’re little that you’ve lived so long! (_To the
others._) We’ll swat him! We’ll swat him!

FLY

Buzz-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z! (_He moves his wings; his eyes glow
red. As he attempts to back away the animals form in a half circle and
block his retreat._)

ALL

Yes, swat him! Swat him! Swat him!

FLY

Oh, wait, wait! Oh, ladies and gentlemen!

ALL

Swat the Fly! Swat the Fly!

FLY

  (_Holds up his third left foot._)

Look out! On this foot I carry a disease that’s death to animals!

RABBIT

Oh! Oh! (_Hops aside and covers her eyes with her forepaws. Her ears
tremble._)

MONKEY

  (_Retreats in the opposite direction and cowers in fear._)

Oh! Oh!

DOG

Come on, Kitten!

CAT

Swat him! Swat him!

HORSE

Swat him! (_Rears excitedly._)

FLY

Buzz-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z! Buzz-z-z-z-z-z-z-z-z! Buzz-z-z-z-z-z-z!

  (_There is a struggle. The Dog growls; the Cat spits. Suddenly the
  Dog and the Cat separate. The Fly is lying on his back, dead. The Cat
  and the Dog come down to the kennel. The Rabbit uncovers her eyes.
  The Monkey regains his brave air._)

HORSE

Well, good-bye to one little germ carrier!

DOG

And a thousand little flies are fatherless.

CAT

  (_Smoothes her fur._)

Why, that Doctor brought me home when I was starving in the street!
Purr-r-r! Purr-r-r!

RABBIT

And he took ME away from a bad little boy! (_Hops to the hutch._)

MONKEY

And after all, he’s a relative of mine. And--blood is thicker than
water! (_He strolls toward the laboratory door._)

DOG

My friend, suppose, after this, that instead of fighting the Doctor, we
fight the flies!

ALL

Good! Yes! Hoorah! We’ll swat the flies!

DOG

  (_Goes to kennel._)

Now, where’s that fine big bone? (_Growls gently; settles down._)

MONKEY

  (_Yawns._)

Everybody ready for bed?

  (_Chorus of sleepy growls, meows, whinnies, and squeaks. The Monkey
  puts a paw on the push button, and the lights go out._)

  (_As the garden goes dark there is the sound of someone running._)

INSPECTOR

  (_Calling from the street._)

Doctor! Help! Oh, Doctor! (_She rushes through the door._) Doctor, oh,
Doctor, where are you? Oh, Doctor, help!

  (_The Doctor throws open the door of the laboratory, enters, and
  presses the electric button. The Inspector is standing beside the
  bench, the Boy in her arms. She wears no hat or coat. Beside her, on
  the lawn, is a cat, wearing a gay collar, to which is fastened a tiny
  bell. A dog comes from the kennel, a horse looks through the square
  opening, and a monkey appears out of the monkey-house._)

  (_The Doctor is in his shirt-sleeves. He comes down._)

INSPECTOR

My boy! My boy’s dying! He can’t breathe!

DOCTOR

Here! (_Takes the Boy in his arms, lays him upon the bench, and leans
down to him._)

INSPECTOR

Oh, save him! Save him! Oh, I can’t lose my boy! What can you do?

DOCTOR

Diphtheria! Wait! (_Takes the case out of his pocket._)

INSPECTOR

Oh, not that, Doctor! No! No!

DOCTOR

  (_Brushes the Inspector aside._)

Let me alone! It’s the only thing!

  (_The Doctor administers the serum to the Boy._)

INSPECTOR

  (_Covers her face; drops to her knees in front of the Doctor, her
  back toward him._)

Oh, I don’t care WHAT you do--if you’ll only save him!

DOCTOR

Here! Look! (_The Inspector turns._) Oh, it’s wonderful! See! Already!

INSPECTOR

Oh, my son! My little son!

DOCTOR

Relieved! (_Straightens up._) But it was a close shave!

INSPECTOR

Doctor, will you forgive me?

DOCTOR

Come! Get him into his bed. (_Lifts the Boy in his arms and gives him
to the Inspector._)

INSPECTOR

Oh, I was wrong! I was wrong!

DOCTOR

No, you’re right. Vivisection IS cruel. But disease is cruel--and, oh,
how cruel is death!

INSPECTOR

Oh, I’m ashamed! Here I was, spying on you, fighting--

DOCTOR

I’m willing to be watched. But if you trust us doctors with the lives
of your children, can’t you trust us with the lives of cats and dogs?

INSPECTOR

Oh, yes! Yes! (_Starts to go; turns._) Oh, how can I ever thank you!
You’ve saved my boy!

DOCTOR

Don’t thank me. Thank your brother, the horse!

  (_The Inspector goes out, murmuring to the Boy._)

Well, old fellow! (_The Doctor pats the horse, and gives him sugar._)
You saved him. And I WISH you could know it! (_Stoops to stroke the
cat._) Ah! Here’s a dead fly! (_Picks up a fly from the floor._)

[Illustration]




NOVELS BY ELEANOR GATES

  THE POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL. 50 cents, net.

  THE BIOGRAPHY OF A PRAIRIE GIRL. 50 cents, net.

  THE PLOW-WOMAN. 50 cents, net.

  CUPID, THE COW-PUNCH. 50 cents, net.

  THE JUSTICE OF GIDEON. (Short stories). $1.20 net.


PLAYS BY ELEANOR GATES

_In preparation_:

  THE WAITING SOUL (one act). A drama of the “twilight sleep.”

  WE ARE SEVEN (three acts), stage version.

  THE POOR LITTLE RICH GIRL (three acts), stage version.


  Also in preparation, a novel

  WATCH-MATES

  A romance of the China Sea.

  By FREDERICK MOORE
  Author of “THE DEVIL’S ADMIRAL,” etc.


  THE ARROW PUBLISHING COMPANY
  116 WEST FIFTY-NINTH STREET
  NEW YORK




TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE:


  Italicized text is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK "SWAT THE FLY!": A ONE-ACT FANTASY ***